Mathesko
========

Mathesko (\məˈthēsko\\) is a portmanteau of the ancient greek words `mathesis`
and `methusko`.  `Mathesis` means the *serious acquisition of knowledge*.
`Methusko` means *to become intoxicated*. The compound `mathesko` is intended
to connote `drunk with knowledge`.  One implication in the domain of wine is
obvious, as is perhaps the allusion in the realm of academics.  I most like,
though, the double entrende arising from the translation to English: wine that
is *drunk with knowledge*.  The purpose of this application is to help us all
learn about the incredibly complex topic of wine so that we may drink it with
shared knowledge, which is always preferable to drinking alone in the dark.

There are many good web sites and print publications that provide voluminous
information about wine, so what does mathesko add? Mathesko is not a database
to search, nor is it a blog about a wine producing region, nor an academic
history or scientific explanation of wine-making.  While Mathesko can support
these use cases, there are other sites better suited for these purposes (see
references).

Mathesko is designed to solve the following use case.  You're a well-educated
sophisticate and you've enjoyed your share of wine. And you really *like* wine.
You find it interesting.  You've read many articles on it. Maybe you subscribe
to *Wine Advocate* or *Wine Spectator*.  Maybe you have a *Cellar Tracker*
account or regularly use *Wine Searcher* to find deals on your go-to wines.
When you drink a new bottle of wine, while you know whether you like it or not,
you have difficulty articulating why.  You've read many tasting notes from pros
like Robert Parker, Jancis Robinson, Stephen Tanzer, and John Gilman.  You
appreciate their detail and even sometimes imagine that you recognize the
*garrigue* or the *kirsch* or the *burnt pencil lead* too.  But now you need to
buy a bottle of wine for a special party. You have some bottles in your
cupboard, some that you quite like, but you want something different for this
party. So you go to the wine shop. You peruse for a while and then one of the
salespersons asks if you need help. You tell them about the party.  Then they
ask what kind of wine you like. And you have no words. Or, perhaps even worse,
you have a jumble of words that remind you just how uncertain your wine
knowledge is.
